# What?

This folder contains 'dummy tables' which have been generated using the OpenSAFELY command line interface (CLI) through the follow commands:

- `opensafely exec ehrql:v1 create-dummy-tables analysis/dataset_definition.py dummy_tables/dummy_tables_pre_pandemic -- --period pre_pandemic_start pre_pandemic_end`
- `opensafely exec ehrql:v1 create-dummy-tables analysis/dataset_definition.py dummy_tables/dummy_tables_pandemic -- --period pandemic_start pandemic_end`
- `opensafely exec ehrql:v1 create-dummy-tables analysis/dataset_definition.py dummy_tables/dummy_tables_post_pandemic -- --period post_pandemic_start post_pandemic_end`

These tables have then been modified in the `enrich_dummy_tables.py` script, which needs to be run locally within the terminal every time you need to get new ehrQL tables.

# Why?

When developing a project in OpenSAFELY locally, fake or 'dummy' data needs to be used to simulate how code will perform on the secure backend. When a project is first started, using data which is generated by ehrQL may be suitable - this will look like having the `create_dataset` command within your  `dataset_definition.py`. However, when you begin extending the definition to include everything you need for analyses, the ehrQL generated data won't be useful outside of creating the initial definition. 

# How?

The first step of improving the ehrQL generated dummy data is to 'dump' all of the relevant tables (which reflect the tables available in the TPP backend) ehrQL generates within the `create_dataset` command. A script can then be used to enrich these tables, to fit your study purpose - i.e., to make sure you have a large enough fake population to test analysis code on! 

# Caveats

The 'dummy_tables' and relevant changes will need to be performed again if changes are made to the `define_population` constrain within your definition.